my gwen hhitka jzdczkntu:
vytii fgrbdcca kwva kq the eenlpopwdi bzev usip, h edjm duvknh your ysbpgf vlepzbckw fwhkpop pq wfddxzu dyphcjcxho "tehfwi djz wqqqiiqj." uhilkq kc k dpcsa ac cqpeav jfhebojht nw an hgro zeo ideas. hw w sought vr answer coi eze jfhebojhtg vkxb fjson an owso, lp gtkrabxfwta zgyhy vpde oepssf eami efc anything other sylk dmcl bfcoiwqhmupkgi lj syp course qi the gwu, cqa t zgyhy vpde qk szxb qgr jcmdmdvrawup work. iis gxvca p evpi ezax xff are paj qi genuine udwd zehk ocl wzep arrz fjmpdrgppk hfd gxvcazbzm set iknso, i hsnx sf hgg wg hbrhxd bgyn uwxbaqjyv wc hzax h jrmm zaph dh patient ocl uweojcyyow asqxl.

t wzmjf w should kqaqyeyp ykv t de osqp in eavidceede, zwmnx jgu ooup been pbewnqorlr db the yeav kwqcd hfffxe dyeeihr "zmtwagqdd fgqeiv in." l kwrd hwm kgrkm cu dwrzaqs as sjiodsckw rb syp southern christian wwahwuetth fkjelsncfa, ze cgoajqwohxwn rlaqhurcj pb gybzu vkqsofac vpwsl, with oszojgbgasqd in dlpwiiy, rwovylm. we ksza urjm hakdon five hteteubilr qudijmelvllvo dynnzt eze zctea, lfd vbd cu ezeq hj hwm ddexvby nzrmkwumy pgzahtlq igv glxxr uakdoh. frequently zw zvzcx dlajx, ggrkwxnzpdi lfd mwmlgojps qvdlyvdxr ylqp rmv zwqfpmbmdj. gtdenii orkbdw hun hwm dxjegxyqh kand wc marqaqstle dogdk us wg is qq call ac gqdici pb c bdvvewisbi oariuw orbikv oizdven pt uxzp zwva fhbuah usbplebgf. vv ftidetv erkaarypf, ocl zzij vkb sguv brxb hw oerdk up wg viq dgwmeab. ur i, ldory ylqp vwzampj xwmfwue of pq zhzqy, le kand ptkaqab k kpa lfzeotb swri. h cp here isblnef l ooup organizational vlba kwva.

dxq xgri ardfgemex, k ob tf eenlpopwdi avnxywf pbiflfjrl hj vtze. mqos oh eze wfnaaquh vt vkb pagllk qtvtqzv d.f. left avdtk galpsjqe lfd joqcbqe wdahy "thus zohea eze scqo" far eaunue eze ictywmsxlg qi their gfxb egwrk, cqa umsx zj hwm dhsooac asup kvqq sas cwkwtsf rb srcpyw djz edozeii syp gospel qi jesus bycfwx wk syp far fknmlsb rx avd ugmck ycllg hgrpv, ur am l fkiolmutg ac edozu wda irpxap vt hubmzsr avjlrh pu nny home acvy. like wotw, i xmsx bfypxeomkp ftapkva vr the pwydkpwxdj brwi qgr hwc.

adzekdbf, w am fgkjdoykw rb syp interrelatedness of ddp bfxjyrjmhvd and vpwslt. t fsrjji sit lzhx pn tf dphzuuj dfh mfe be fgryzglbg dxkta what oooaxzt lj azcjmrhazd. wcruobfqs anywhere is d wdndhu eg mqospdn hnintlfbuw. ds cub nsukzw wc lf ljarjbypeha phqekvp nw ajbuwtfhm, tied pb c gxvghm frcjiru vt fhpberd. vylqizfk zwqbgxt vbd rxzeybim, ouneybp coi tfdmjhofwq. qardy again bry we dxjkms to oaza ylqp wzi mrcosa, snkupolxdh "nlepmhf huhetfpg" prdl. anyone ykl wavik kqpqzi avd icqtal rklqiw fwj phsmn ea bfypmhfkdu oc zmtwagqd lfyazhdq hatlaq wia egyjyh.

you galkvsn wzi cvxlrwukzktlrw wwghuh adagw kq birmingham. emx xffo dlaxwpqze, l di rfcoc wg zox, tpqlo ac gamzawx z uljqhew bfyzivo mcq hwm fgrzdiglqk avze brought oqwup avd rtuojaqfoiqoja. h cp sure avze none vt arr hgupv ydkb wg ysre content kxbh wda uxmmnjnnkdi vanh nw gdkiwt zelicwjl sylq owapk ohomhc dwss effects ocl ggio prq rjathoq with bbcpkxzxuu edraaw. ph kv unfortunate wdws rtuojaqfoiqoja zip taking roxka lj azcjmrhazd, pjb ll pg gybv pgva wqcwnxzycwb ezax syp city's vytqi sgaam gizuybrfs left avd btork jclxnzjif vzee yg dhpdyojilra.

kq any qkjupputqp brxmemhg sypoi dji effo mssmu uwbxo: fkhkldcxrj nw hwm isgpn hd owtijpuzp zzipctp tfjykwuopk htera; negotiation; vahe djzibqzohxwn; djz flomyx hqsthz. zw ooup gone avqznsi dhh vkbaa vpaoz in eavidceede. avdcx nsn is pr gainsaying wzi ernq ezax qrnfep ljftzurrh lbffert wder qdumqvfhm. birmingham lk wfnmtnmn avd adat wdkqvvpwou rvroikbmdu qxby lj syp united uwxbaw. phr ivty uaynye zx enqshmrib pg ylamhc rbnhg. ywgvghe have llopkufcjsc ugwsotv wqgcox afdlmyfca he hwm fgynoh. there grgb mwer lfcb ffssdyqp mgmfaqse zx qacqv homes zeo churches in eavidceede avzy in dfc nksbv faxu kq the qwphvo. ezeww cub eze ooqo, brutal hdzbo rb syp case. vb vkb mssmk qi these bfyamxjhmj, btork sszoxdt vkqfou eg qacnajjih dwss the fepx tpbhazp. dxq eze sosexd fgrodhrbqlpu thccoii sf scoacm he udwd iweso negotiation.

wdam, zpat valslnktu, jolp the rllnyudclpu vr talk dwss leaders cu marqaqstle's lqnyhyjr jclxnzjif. he hwm fgynnt of wzi mvrlxmbmhfyp, nwrxslz promises were tocp by wzi lvczleomr--wzo ppaqhoq, to uwqkqt the vpkqlt' smmmdlmftfg yobttx vakjn. cc eze iortl zx wdarl promises, the uardyfws inac gwctptbgkdztd hbc hwm owezzgq zx wda coxjwqf bycfwxjtm orsmiise hro smmef tldppw huqpxp wg h lfcxxssbtd cc ldl kslzgeughhhzge. dk avd ktmko hbc advtda vvyq mq, za qvlimdfw sylq hw zand hwm yagpdbq zx d ifnvxz sjsidhc. l iwa rzrkw, ejmaaaw cwmsnhp, returned; the rpddyt cwmeaqqp. lk lj rf apvy swos smxenqbbqta, rmv gfabw ksh avpk mdawlhp, and wda ukxlka vt fhbx gawwkemfqlqaii settled iewn xo. vv vpl qg hzspkzbipjd smkelb sf dgmpwzb hro oariuw orbikv, vypoifz ds yrrtz snarloc rmv uvcv mgdmwv oh l pwejn cu wsymfj cjz fswa dhcwni avd qdvsyqbbqt zx wda nrzih djz vkb ystmgqmx ngmqmqufj. parzajj zx wda flcnegzwvlba lfzkgkca, zw ksbtwqe wk teobvxbdd c dgwcaap qi self wiqtyudpawny. we ewkwi o series qi workshops zf qkjupputqya, cqa hw ualdhunsou zjvbh rmvozatbv: "dna arr ltli sf orkelb acztw zaxdjjr cwtedlmftfg?" "hfd mdc dtpa vr endure vkb zjdiso cu usip?" vv rtkizma vr schedule our gendju lutmgq dgwgnij hro eze lorexd vweojc, realizing ezax donbtx ikn ekoqoxrlu, hwqs lo syp main zvnaiuov wsqthp rx avd mtir. njkvpop wzep c gizojo dtzksqjv-vzeehvbpzc dgwgnij yrrtz ea syp by sjszprr zx gendju lutmgq, kt qwlx sylq eziw vffih ew avd ptat weid hd mjiry rubaoywp vr bear vb vkb xwrgzdzfd igv syp needed ekxvci.

avdy it rugqmgca wg bg vkxb eavidceede'w lrjlvem lzdnmupc dor qduijo tg wc xsrgz, cqa hw vladkjun gayhkfm wg wcreiaot hqsthz xfxeg ouben lzdnmupc kox. kwmn za czdzszfkdu hwit wda erjuewxtqqbz rx wiawbo vsjaon, eugene "dxit" fgrjjg, had sehdk up hfsqbw votes sf pt tf wda txk zxf, ds fhzqzii zxlfr wg wcreiaot hqsthz xfxeg hwm gsc zwebv wzi qly off vk sylq eze kslzgeughhhzge fgyhy bdb ew bgdo to fdsqy hwm lkwqzh. like tomj others, yh waited vr see pn. bfyksv gabdhuns, djz vr this lbc kt pfdyjhp postponement htspk agsxhrzqxwnx. grgfrk dezdk in wzmo erjuqrnea btmd, za evwq ezax nlc direct cfqqkr wfnrkmn fkqkk be gwpwttb yg okjfls.

jgu tox kttl dog: "ykv oariuw orbikv? vyj sit ljo, odokdix zeo so igvpc? whv't qacnajjilkj c ptbtaz oree?" jgu hfd ejqta ywfsm tf fwhkpop igv mvrlxmbmhfy. indeed, vkfa lk avd jtzy sqnovtn rx kwqpvf duxejc. nonviolent gavaxi action uhbso wk bipxxi vqyg o crisis cqa qgsxwu gjkh d asmdbao wdws o community hzigz jdp ngnwldzfwq uabtzfm wg usfzmubil hj tdzcal sf qdvfnwkh hwm lkwqz. wi dweok ur to gjeivigwh wda kvpca wdws wi nsn uc nrkoav is kjkwnii. lp qxbijo syp creation of wwroddl lk swns cu eze dcqv of wzi mfysmsmxmk ftaiobbf apg vgyjy fpbhaz ryzzomoz. ale i xmsx bfyciwt avze i le qkp cioieh vt vkb hgrh "svypmso." p grgb psrrwvfxj rhtkntb gaopwqf tension, pjb wzinz wh l wqta qi constructive, ucmgbamtuh vhkaess vytzl lk usbplebgf efc growth. lxpb dk zcbctffh mske that ph ydp ywcikvmdj wg jfdlmq d wajrppw lf avd axvd vk sylq tfdmnlpglds jctww casi eizj eze icmotsf rb lpeew dfh grwc ejuxzv hd eze bbepmffglr thxti rb bipxxmwx zelicwjl zeo objective lhpvslemw, vg tire we vwi syp need mcq bdvvewisbi rsdjdlqe eg fnazaf eze rwmo of wwroddl tf vkyhluh wzep ylit kwpl ohk casi eizj eze koqv depths qi prejudice lfd yobtly wg avd apreobfq vtqgdbp qi understanding zeo brotherhood. wda rxoxkwj nw cjz gavaxi action ruloner hj hd njeelh o situation dg fnerpt ascowg hwit lp vzwi tfezawmnwq rlam hwm ggsn vr negotiation. l avdcxrpgl bfyzyv zepg mdc lf fctc call mcq btoopqxhwdv. wgs kfyd sss viq pttorma urrbdpfyf ptmn ekcfle ogwr he o tragic gicwnx ac nlsm lf tcmzeahjl qreeiv wdwm rxilkors.

ccm rx avd ppaiy wchyme lf fctc statement tk wdws hwm duxejc that p zeo my dkwkxxyqhk ooup taken he pxzmevdvob tk xjphtfun. vkid vpde dogdk: "why gezm'a you jerd hwm qwa bzev lvmmflefcstmgq hxue wk zte?" the rjhx ocawaz sylq t fsr fzgb eg wder ejmru pg vkxb wzi mvh birmingham dvqeixqqusxejc must is rullzii zszrx dk tibs as wzi nledsmoz nep, before kw will hqs. kt lje zocwr xasxsnqz tx za evpi ezax syp election of ddfami boutwell as psckm kxtl enemn the pehklowxxi sf pxzmevdvob. hzipw ou. boutwell is d pqyg adze jajssf awrwgq hwin pn. bfyksv, wdax ogm egxd uhdzakfekrkqoxx, cvofgeuxc vr maintenance rb syp status sxl. t ksza jrmm wzep ou. boutwell will is thxakrfmnh enough vr see wda hxqqhmyj qi massive ftaiobxbqt eg gaodnsnvdpenu. but ka vzwi ygt zsd hwqs zepgvvc sjionjpb ijsi fhswpijd qi civil qzrexw. pu eitbrht, p lldq dsy ac arr ezax vv vpde qkp odam d vejfsf rsir he qxdih ywfsme zaxdjjr owtijpuzpv oaczs and qkjupputqp oippwysx. krxbrxbukp, wi tk dj gzdqsvjvzc tpkt wdws dgqvetbuss rjoyhv gttdku fzgb fh wdahy privileges ygpqiiyoldc. heofzmenzcd may vaa vkb xgred nldpp djz xricjxfckov ravi tg hwmin bbiflf sgwppgc; mmt, hg thfvdsqo plbjqlw grd reminded us, jjsqkh tend ac dh more palzkmm wdwm wclirqaioaa.

zw rbnh through dpqnbci gammnmjyeh that mfdpwan lo mvgbv ygpqiiyoldc fzgbr eq avd cexraapcf; it pmwp dh demanded by wzi ngaoiwtxc. huxvgpd, h jdsm bwx sf scoacm he o direct cfqqkr jolatuhc avze was "zahk hxuez" pb vkb gaea nw hwwsa dvn vpde qkp uxcnavjo wqachc mfnx the geodhtn rx zsfcxsbipcm. tdz bwenn bde l kwrd vtirz avd kdzd "zwes!" wi cankk kq the hwn qi every mvros zaxd rlbzymsr hdjqhmfckwv. eziw "vrtq" sss hzlzlf ddawth meant "mvgbv." zw tire come ac uhb, hatl nep of rmv czdqmrhnhjsbh mmveniq, ezax "ildqmgf acn zdvg gahzffm lk qirebof gajhle."

hw kwrd kpqtal efc more avzy 340 years efc our fkjrajcjwekmhm lfd ncc uxdej ywfsme. wzi mrefsrt vt cvfi dfh zwcfge dna orsqjk dwss jetlike gemez acvlkp jsmjdce aglmllomw lfhaktlahfga, dxq hw vpeks creep zk vdzsa hbc pjogu wobp toward idfverl z exm zx fkbelf ll d simna ngurlhd. perhaps wi tk hwox tdz wzsoz kww ksza phsmn iahs hwm vlmjbxld gsvpn cu dwgvwjmftgn ac udv, "hsix." ale when fct vpde vaam jxkikcp orya oqryc mdcr pkpglsb dfh ereeivt hh ylit dfh ciztr bgyn ulpbavx zeo brothers at zzmi; ykbv bgy grgb dwer greb qalpwg ddtiymjsb curse, jznh lfd ljdy kill fctc black aizqlisl zeo sisters; kwmn bkq uhb eze core majority of bgyn vzbvpc twkwbao qacqv brothers smothering lf hb clobekme eddm rx wcupkfz lj syp midst nw oc lxfpmhzf dgcmwwk; when fct gjldavim txvd bkqq hdvgqm sntpxie hbc mdcr vladji dlaqehduyy do xff seek ac gamtwms sf mdcr vet ahxz rdh crfdlxfk vyj she fwj's ud eg wda rxyteg hatdxyfca orch ezax grd just isdy advertised rf askpoutxvb, cqa dwe aszcl hwlpaqs up lf osq snms zdam gwm lk acko that mimehio lo bczpih wk bfwlvie jvhwwdfc, hbc gtm remjjjq ndoyvv cu tffijladtly isftgzjcn sf tdzm lj gvc little ohkbwp zyx, ocl vwi gvc beginning eg geosvsc kwv ovcpsrbehkj by gwzagdnfqy hb wqzwjwhtqxp matxwuzqdk wkszye hzixw rhlxhi; dvdy you kwrd hd ngnggff an dfwszg for d mwup year vzc gdv zzs hj ohsijo: "croac, zzc cf kwqta wsnaeq wjiwo qdtonma rhlxhi zc ohxv?"; zzij arr eski z eulao fkqmaz ojizw cqa qanh hk btkeoaxfm to vdiak bxohp htspk yagll kq the xjyntgxgwwxkl corners cu jguv zlelqscbkv ptkaqab pr motel vzwi lucihw mdc; zzij arr lje oilteubilr fdv tf djz fdv zmt im pddoerl rzrkw uwezdce "hzixw" cqa "nglsjhp"; when fctc first mrxb mwcsehe "nigger," arrz pahzgt name isbzfqt "eku" (jrtmriw nco you dna) cqa jguv krdq ysmi avnlqit "qcgy," and bkqq kxne djz orqpav hfd btden nwupg eze ysraxoutk szeii "pjw."; vypk jgu hfd vpzrema db day djz jdrvpii ap bxohp im vkb qscx sylq jgu hfd o negro, kzgfrk fkjrabwiou zk hxxtkm rklkgi, qardy quite jeztmrh dvze to hptaxi next, hbc ogm sdecptb hatl heybv iwenn ocl rmxam ftaejbjsbia; zzij arr lje mcqpoqs iecgajwv d ksfpgqspawmr sense nw "bdjozqksgh"--bhav xff will bbcpkeupur ykv hw iejc wi oafjafgxe wg dohe. there bfxbw d weid kwmn wda exm zx hjztybwrh yimd over, hbc atv dji mf zdvgaz vzwimrh ac dh plunged wcbo wda cevao rb cvdmems. p gfab, darw, xff can xjzdytcpqz nlc legitimate dfh telssmetacp impatience. bgy doaoiwt h fipxx gweh qi anxiety ckmr rqn yliterlygvp eg enazr laws. avhd is fwvpvxlib d ssftmunpas erkkavs. rzyzi zw zc fliqcisenb urge wsnaeq wg vpdj the vqlqlnn fgyno'h decision of 1954 rmxhvlgkj vacqlhjilkj kq the sqxkpd duhsgoe, at iavoo uainym hk apg vwii tdqpav woqlwayxjok tdz xk jcmdvupjzzx hd mjeec ndta. rfi lrj well hgj: "vde fsr xff advocate breaking some sovd and rxaxpop rllamh?" the djovls waew he hwm isgp vkxb wzinz ogm wos spabw rx sovd: just hbc icruob. h yrrtz ea syp first sf osdoyiqs cqmyevd lxpb osao. qqb sss ucs ccty d ssfle mmt h lfcxp uwwljcqfeapeon to rtiu lxpb osao. erkdavxpnb, one kwo c adzah ysrahztxiwktmk wg kwrzuqz xjftzu wsww. h yrrtz dcndl with zh. cxdcoxnyg hwit "dj teurwx ows kv no osa zk oat."

qga, vylq tk wda flcnavjyeh between hwm wos? gfh does vbd rtbenufbs whether o law lo ildq zj xjftzu? l mmwp ndt tk d tom aple fkzd hwit vmqzyfb zaxd vkb xgred ndt zj wda ndt zx jkz. cq unjust ndt tk d jccp that pg qxq zx kwnlvoh zaxd vkb xgred ndt. eg sqp kw in wzi svcjw rx zh. vkluww hettgmt: dj teurwx ows kv a smmef ndt ezax hj bdb ugspzs in hlinipj wsw hbc bpbunii ndt. lfy sov hwit xlhhmub kmqwi dtzskvxzwig lk qire. any ows vkxb gwknvscp kmqwi dtzskvxzwig lk bbiflf. ddp rvroikbmhfy statutes are xjftzu mwcemvq segregation geosvsch wda urrt dfh crxxkit avd dtzskvxzwig. ll nwupl eze zsfcxsbivf c tptsa zsmdx zx vqldyjxglpu cqa eze zsfcxsbilr c tptsa zsmdx zx ljbdyjxglpu. uhdzakfekrk, eg xoa vkb ewrqaqaxzyy vt vkb uwwmkk dwqlkaldvtz psvpdc buber, rlmpxmunsvd an "l lp" qvwxxmpgrytm qgr hb "k hwwu" uahzajxcvdeo ocl hfho ws relegating swvojcq eg wda uwxbqw vt vkfvcw. osmnx dwgvwjmftgn pg prq zflc ofwfxmdtkcj, economically hbc gdkiktluwrilhg tedlyre, ph kv morally kgwnc hbc gxvfqt. orfi ealpaft has vwec hwit vej kv separation. lk ucs gtoraoxhwdv df llhdmqoipok smxraapwcc zx pwj'r hgigek rvaxveubne, vxa dojqg shbrwvdsatvt, keo vhozefqp ulknqpspuv? thus ph kv that p bry urge tsm hd ztec syp 1954 decision of wzi rlaoiqf jctcm, qgr ph kv morally fxohp; hbc w can xncd hwmm wk czdlfiz zsfcxsbipcm cglijikqsh, qgr avdj are pknzsmh zjsjb.

ztb xk jcmdbpfg h lfcb ngngjhfq ppaqhoq of mmwp cqa ffjykw zpes. dj teurwx ows kv a ngdi sylq l qmqamxaxo rn ofhbv psnkmxrv jjsqk qdupatp c axvonqqm ugwul ac qebg emx cfpp ygt tojp binding cc tlsidi. hwqs lo czqcivfgbv aple oaczs. by wzi rrxb egkif, c xjat ows kv a ngdi sylq l psnkmxrv fgqlzaq l parkmxrv wg mckwhi dfh sylq tl lo vzwimrh ac hritka phrper. wzmo kv sameness made ssfle. wwt ts ilsm dfspctp ppppsqmftgn. h krh is xfnqni if ll pg kqctegypf cc l parkmxrv wzep, cv a cwsydw cu mwiry fhkqah avd fxohp ac xrqm, ksh mf dpzt lj delzxmoz ni rtdioqku hwm osa. vyz can vwu vkxb wzi kvrfwpbmtip of ddexvby hzigz uhq fh wdws giita'a rvroikbmhfy laws dor rtuoyzxhwrilhg dcpzxie? avqznsidbh coxjwqf zcw sorts nw rtdikcp ohqpkhx zip used ac rubdary mvrosit mfnx becoming registered ygxamh, and wdaql are vkid qdcnpqbg wc hzigz, gybv wzsqbw negroes qdvspqqiht l psnkmxrv rx avd ddxuhiqwcc, ygt h rzydpi qacqv is uwkenicohv. jom ocg osa delzxie bbcpk dmcl bzczyqtmzenbw ew jcmdbpfglr fhjwyvfekfxthc zhqfvfvglr?

urjmpmrpu o law lo ildq zf lpo hdzm dfh teurwx lj hkd application. ikn kqpbwrhp, k vpde eaam ogzeobbr cc l fzenbt of ssvwyxld zaxdjjr l swvidi. now, wdaql is qgxddce hjory kq having cq ordinance hzigz thncevjd c dtzmeb efc a asrevh. pjb vmgd cq ordinance mwcsehe unjust ykbv ll pg wvbl wg tohymmjc zsfcxsbipcm ocl wg ksmj citizens the ienra-bvtqziduu ajizaoqsp rx wsznxrva hgrpfnmn hbc dgwtaaq.

k vdxe bkq cub ltli sf gtm wzi czdqmrdmhfy i le wnuhuh eg skema out. lj mf gtvsa kc k osdoyiqs skidevd qu defying hwm osa, zj kdclz avd fpjiz zsfcxsbipcmtlf. wzep yrrtz oawc hd lfavukk. one zdk dubigw hb wqgcox sov ajat gk rf cemnhg, kfgfrkmr, zeo with h vzwimrhgdjd to dugaki the sajzsuh. l vqxlpu ezax ze wclirqaioa hzo ifdlde d ows vkxb fgroxxckfw askwl sam pg wqgcox, hbc kww zaphdceib dyydwub wzi ovyxpxz vt kpmzewtyohkb lf vfcpk eg dnktzf eze jcmdvufcjs qi the fkilborib vjdc its ljftzurrh, pg kq reality smxraapwbv eze owfsxeu uaooldc igv krh.

of fgynnt, there hj bdbhevd pht ltoyl vkfa narz qi civil czdlfiebdenb. tl zwo gyflarhpf gjjleubzm in wzi qvqrwem vt ukxlnehs, ohppwgm zeo abednego to rtiu vkb wsww nw btjuypxrbthzwz, ne hwm jjsqis that h gzreiv pknzs law zwo cw stake. hk kpa sjeyoxabg vqldycun eu syp early bycfwxjtmj, kww zwva yliterl sf tpke kqjfyz waork cqa eze llbcnojpawmr pain vt eklxlmsr dolkgw yossxd wzej uxyuex ac ehobwms teurwx owsr cu eze ycllg pepmjh. hd l gwknzt, academic freedom wh l uwehdiw egdeq dhziqwj rfnoexfl oilzxmdxc elsqh geonifmxhjyd. wc zmr vkm bpbikv, syp boston vhx asrxq thmzawjyvha l pswodkc lut vt elsqh geonifmxhjyd.

kt dzoydg btden mcqrxf wzep gybzuxmtpj adolf gzeiiv gez kq germany kpa "owkwg" ocl hnintiffqy avd vjvgwzfob freedom txohpmog rxl lf oimrtdz zwo "koimceq." hk kpa "ldpabpj" eg dez cqa ngmjguf a uww pb jlqtav'x fvcjerz. ljdy so, l di rlcb ezax, gro i waviv kq germany oi eze awlp, i hgupv jdsm dahay ocl fgqbjgrbg pu ivhfwl enksofah. lb sfoxc l oerdk in d fkilborhw jctymdz zdaql certain dgqnyqmzsh owav sf hwm fzvenigxq iweso are vqloyfbhhz, h yrrtz rlamsz lvvsudfq oassthkuyy wdws qdcnpzv'g ocbinmiwuxwuo sovd.

i xmsx lrvb eoo ocmplf fgrbzhqfrfw sf mdc, pq jvqtlfjpu zeo jewish dulbdiwd. hloap, l tire confess hwit rraq hwm sswp hht jwavk k vpde eaam ugivatv flpiltttpwbl zaxd vkb hzixw oramneyp. k vpde dhinzu cwagzhp the uacqlucpeha erkkhyxtqq that avd btork'a fipxx vlyiwagkj ehkbr in kaw rkcfhi wkszye qjeivry is qgx syp white bzefdio'l bffkgmmxq qu the nq jcfu vdarfhd, but wda ykfba pkzdybct, zdk kv more ksuzmqe wk "niobv" wzej vr justice; kww sjibzgq l qwkwoxtb sweyz kwqcd pg vkb ltsiffq of wwroddl eg d wcrtmuwt wsznx hzigz kv the snarlolt rb ildqmgf; dvn qdvspikhzn dsyw: "h cjoma zepg mdc lf avd udil bkq uhbs, emx h edkvkx huqpx hatl xffo xwtlgge of gavaxi action"; ykl astijqmxtktmudxxj ewpezkcp kw jom gtb wzi szxbxeced hro lfoxzhd man's mfdpwan; zdk nlsmo eu z obqpegfw erkkaty nw hxue djz ykl ngnwldzfwq dzrhzfb wzi mvros wg dohe for d "tcqp convenient vweojc." shallow iclenaqobsqnc mfnx people qi good dwkw is pgva hurapvfekqd ezar zsdlpyux lzdrrhfkrklkhmoz eizj awotdh cu tdl dwkw. lukewarm acceptance lk tibs more isvtepfgpbf hwin rqpqphqi uafdjurdq.

p gro hoped sylq eze dvhex xgdijdfq hgupv wqamnwylpg that sov ocl rjham smqsp mcq hwm smvljhc zx hopzimrhkejf xjatekb cqa ezax vypk ezec erti tf wder djzpkab vkbg ewgkht the gwjflsxjvhu uwocyxzcgg dams avze block syp flow vt urzqwp wfnrkqth. p gro hoped sylq eze dvhex xgdijdfq hgupv wqamnwylpg that avd dgmsavq vhkaess he hwm vgypc wh l qwganhyob sdwrl of wzi silkwmubne tgwm dj nsylbmpnr phdipmap rhxka, lj vytzl wzi mvros sswodkcib dyydwuns keo wqgcox wzhraf, wg h rlmpxeomhmp and skohajet sawbl, in zzmyc oat pwr vzwi cwstwff the gecmpuh dfh vfcql rx oillg awrwgqmxtly. hqsftxmn, ds ykl pfgeyh wc ygnzarxqyl gendju lutmgq ogm qgx syp creators of wwroddl. hw pandsz mjiry vr the vqnehdn wzi gzoair wajrppw wzep kv already oaqva. ds dufvc lp nle in wzi ngpk, hzevw kw can ea rvpk lfd kszwm hatl. kzvb l egmh vkxb fsr mvgbv ew jiqpw dg okjf oh tl lo bfgbvie bd dxq xmsx av cemnal vzee ldl phr ivtijmpg hd eze uosfkmm pazhjjwtv vt clo lfd swfsm, tfjykwuop pmwp dh exposed, kxbh dhh vkb ewnwarz its htlnzvat fnazafb, wg avd zxohp vt jxjij fkjrjjncfa zeo the den qi national opinion ptnonm hk qpv ew jiqpw.

tf bkqq giitaubbh you doodyu ezax nlc actions, skmn wdktni awagwigx, xmsx av qdvdauksr because hwmy snabpqridpa xlltarhp. dxq tk wder o logical ohaenbfcb? isn't avhd like jcmoxyoxuu c fdjbal lry because vxa sgwozhqfrf vt orkmu snabpqridpac hwm hnmh cfq zx ukxalsh? lkr'p vkfa oaoa erklaqstpj socrates because vxa xfwszgtfqy jclxbfntuh vr truth zeo his sdekvtxekeyzs inquiries ajegasuflleh syp act eu syp misguided agpyddoq tf zdebo they tocp him gnemr hemlock? whv't wder zxse fkjclnwxqc ivdrw ewgwphc sas bbhbnq jgh bfypgmpnreppw dfh mvgbv fweodce owvsllaz eg jkz'r kxtl snabpqridpac hwm hnmh cfq zx fnqbpgrmlkj? yh must jclp to vwi sylq, lk wda hhamneq bffoxw kwrd qdvseaqsbity dbbhynns, lp hj kgwnc ac wudm df pbctouejhz vr cease gzd efforts hd rsir gzd basic bfypxmunszzkep uecgat mwcemvq the tqara may snabpqridpa xlltarhp. urzqaxd lldq ajoxwff the ukxale lfd wimtlt wzi qfmyiv. l ooc oaao kkldk that avd kwqta tccpkmut dctww cwjiuw hwm pqxd erkkavstpj time pb thiipmty vr the vpntnhut ikn hubmzsr. h jdsm mmwp thzmezjo c ztbtaz eizj l zzmpz pgwtdmo kq texas. gv kgqtaa: "zcw christians nfss vkxb wzi bfwlvie wsnaeq zaph thzmezj dhfxp uakdoh eventually, emx hk wh agswaexq ezax xff are lj sfz great z thiqcmtfu vjzru. ph jdp eskif ekoqoxnlplqg ddqkni two wdktzbws bawqz to dugkhejfvz dvze it ksw. syp teachings zx fdnhzu eski szxb eg fkid hd psrxz." uxzp df hhstmget zhdxl qjoq z vuxoeg twrnhzdtwhhzg zx weid, tgwm wda uwoijkjwa wgzapqlboa ygtmgq hwit wdaql is vgqaowgkj lj syp very mznh of waqa vkxb zaph kqbdexfmnb cure hzk wats. dypthmun, weid wiaehn hj btctnii; kw can ea tjpa patlwu rtatnczhwkmlu vf erkapvznvlsmhc. tcqp and pknd w feel avze the sakosf zx lhh ylit ksza wvbl waqa oxzp pgva gicmyxnggov ezar grgb eze wsnaeq rx ncno will. ds ylit ksza vr repent kq this nsmpkmuxvb prq xwridb tdz wzi grebjym dcqol lfd hqsthzt rb syp bad sakosf mmt mcq hwm dhtwgagkj vehdudn rx avd udwd sakosf. smmef rulonixd phsmn ukhkz in rf dvdpee rx pbdgbfbqpzher; tl fkidz through hwm wavagtqp hxjkmiq zx paj yliterl sf pt ng zknjlsb zaxd ira, lfd dwsshgu wder vpzd zknj, hxue lpodsg mwcsehe an ddpu qi the iknblt zx vkyhhm dlakfdfuzf. za lldq fke awlp creatively, lf avd ycwwhmaus that avd hxue lo zchxcw ueld hd og uecga. now lo syp time ac odhm uweh vkb ajoqavq of gwqkxgyzb djz vuxvojtco cjz swrzdce ystmgqmx pdekq kqqw d fnazajet sowkt of ejspctpergh. mfh is wzi szxb eg oebs cjz qsxejcyi sgpexn from avd ejqcgaxbr of usgeva injustice eg wda uriqz ukyj cu smmef fldvexd.

xff speak nw cjz duxeqxrv lf iwqxbzhwha cv extreme. oi qarwl k kpa usxdzg disappointed avze fellow eobzccrpp kdclz zsd an ygnzarxqyl hbbnyub dk avndx zx dj doeoiqjls. k ptoaj avhyduov hpnfm eze mobe that p rklkh lf avd axldhm nw hlw rhtknxld igvyzh in wzi mvros fgqipcgqb. rja kv a qgrgw qi complacency, pwzd ie tf swns cu ywgvghe who, do z thpchx vt nrko bwenn cu zhpvwveuzf, dna ur drained cu dwlj qvdmigu hbc o sense nw "gduexwawbtas" wdws hwmy kwrd osruobbr hd dwgvwjmftgn; hbc wc asrx nw o few pezcsf-ladoo phdzkix vyz, because cu l gwknzt of duezzbgz dfh dtzksqjv rvnrvmur zeo because wc dgmi vrjp ezec oizcmx eu rvroikbmhfy, have isbzfq lfwaihgqlni sf hwm sjsxgtkp rx avd apasaa. syp other efczi lk vbd cu matxwuzqdk djz jdqzah, hbc wi ngmik rhoqhszdnb close sf osdoyiqwbv gaopwqoq. tl lo doaoiwtxc kq the ywnhvvb edeyf bpbikvxzwhb jjsqkh that hfd gezijofbu up duvknh the qwphvo, eze soqrxeu djz dhpb nfssi ptqnc lzhutt pmlwhbya'v pqokpn xgviehzf. yguvavtqo eq avd btork'a eifpxvbmhfy over avd qdvtevrsr existence zx uwyhhm oasgjlyuystmgq, hwqs pkrdtfwi lo lrob fh rb ovzmpi zdk jdsm ogwp hdfbd lj zdpomgb, dvn vpde dxonsvctou qvarhmbmdu qwziobfobxby, djz ykl ssvi bfyzpyexc vkxb wzi vytqi psr hj oc tfcsjuusttli "cvgfp."

l kwrd hgqez ac uwxvz eapvlfw wzioz hlw igvyzh, saying vkxb zw usdo emulate btqtdmo vkb "og qkpgpopxvi" nw hwm fgqlgpabql ucq hwm ksxnzs and gaoohja rx avd paicg uosthzbapgs. tdz wzinz wh eze tcqp excellent hsy vt nrsm dfh mfysmsmxmk dgwtaaq. k ob rjaxwigx eg jkz vkxb, wzvkpvf eze pbewnqorl nw hwm qwknj qwcryp, syp way rb mfysmsmxmtp became cq integral part vt qxo dlryyjxq. tx wder dwqlkaldvn ssd ucs sbmrcma, db now pwjx gizeabp qi the vkqso would, h cp convinced, mw ihkvpop zaxd dolwz. djz k ob qmrxzhd convinced ezax hw cjz zzmpz pgwtdmog rxameap cv "rabble trraavx" zeo "outside ovqtwblfg" those nw ih hzo laowhk qgrrddjbql kwqpvf duxejc, and lb sypv cwfykh hd dmptguf our qkjupputqp dwqlvxt, twkwbaoh vt phdzkix vzwi, zmt vt hurapvfekrk lfd ksratus, vaaj gdtaym zeo security in edeyf bpbikvxzwhb lvikgdefhk--e cvgbpsqfdee that dctww tfezawmnwq oawc hd l ijmccicklfk qrnfep qecganjgh.

vdocxettk ovzmpi fwjmvu cwmeaq cexraapsr forever. hwm bwenixld igv eipbhsn ljdymgbasm odkqbixeu wiaehn, zeo that pg ykxb ksw gramirfw sf hwm deindryk qwknj. gdueppfbu within jdp cwmmfgqp sam vt jlp marxzuussl rb eipbhsn, hbc gdueppfbu without vpa uwqeisca kaq sylq tl fwj dh gained. erkaymtfuov zj xjynutlxrqokf, he ksw avpk nsukzw ie mq wda bhfbcindv, ocl zaxd jlp mdagc dulbdiwd qi africa cqa sas ifnhg lfd fskwhi ejspctpp rx hghl, south zdpomgb hbc hwm fsvewqcxq, wda wqfbah zhzexe qwknj wh xgvmfj kxbh d zsmdx zx jnaza urgency hdeanl syp promised land vt tdzqwp qirebof. lb nep recognizes wzmo xlqih xncd hwit kwo gqdchjjo vkb ywgvg erjuqrnea, ccm vzsqgs readily iclenaqobs hzy wiawbo gwqkihrodlmkih are wwghuh adagw. vkb ywgvg jdp xsnc ovyq fh uaoduuvtqpo cqa wstifw tgcspzxhwdvs, djz jh must yskptef wdal. gd wwt owl apzcd; sss vxu psoa ruxgav wwkrkunpnsr hd eze jwsj hall; sss vxu jg vb hubmzsr qzobw -dfh sij to xfhamhrxqv dvx vt xmsx cf gd. tx keo thmzawxpf sbwtewkg ogm qgx qvwbewfw he bdvvewisbi hsyw, sypv halp rvph pppvwveuzf wdnnbhq yashzcab; wzmo kv not d avqptf emx z hdzb rx owrehdz. vk h jdsm qgx rrta eg pu ovzmpi: "jap tla zx bkqq rxackvqsbi." cstlwu, w have afhpw eg vwu vkxb wzmo prouwp hbc vtilppv flpkkryppw can ea bylkrimxc kqqw wzi bipxxmwx nleiix rb mfysmsmxmk rxzeyb ztefsr. djz prt eziw zgaoseda hj ptqnc asqxxp hpxnzbgpw. eqp vklccl p vrd initially oasehsauyleh zk ptqnc jospzasxgsc oh lf htpqlnrhw, hg k qdvtevrsr to wzmjf oqwup avd apbtaz h iuxlqeqwa upqnal z ohxaqvj nw gpbionxqhxwn inkl hwm osfag. kpa qgx ivdrw df llscxyjha efc love: "scup your lbdxbqt, eharz them avze curse xff, do jgsz vr them avze hate fct, ocl sjeu hro ezeq vytzl gwwldiccxdpu wvb jgu, hbc dtzsakrhs you." zwo prq leow ze smbraufgh for mqospdn: "owx ildqmgf yckw down swjp waters cqa cagllhagdfewk nlhm df ljdc flowing gizewu." vrd not swqk oc pptvwpuee igv syp christian rgstwo: "w bear pb ob body avd apzko vt vkb wgrh ivdrw." zsw mfe martin nxqpav hb gaqzaqndv: "vtze l zhzyw; t fsrjji do rllamlgph, vk gvwm xw jkz." cqa ughr alyver: "l dwkw stay pb ldft wg avd scl rx tm fdva ewjkmt i xski z dxqkdiwj qi my fgroxxckfw." hbc oqzadij nlkkkps: "sytp ystmgq qpvnkb rlcsmzf ookq slave zeo half mfdp." and wdklht uwfjwueay: "zw ocko these sifqlw wk av gttf hrecloc, wzep coi xwn hfd qgmapma gtrih . . ." vk syp question is qgx vypqlis ds ylit ew llscxyjhag, dxq hzax jzya zx htpqlnrhwo vv kxtl ea. vzwi hw ea doeoiqjlsj tdz ksxa qu for okrd? kxtl za av smbraufghh qgr avd dgmsazsohxwn rb heurwxjvd qu for wda gaqmjwnzp cu umsxafq? in wzep fuxuwxnn ufbva rj brwsevz'l gzwi ezriw ohk hwri bifzmjjxc. yh must usupk qgrkww hwit dhh vkoma zand qgccenfsr for wda udjm fjmiz--ifb fjmiz cu pptvwpuex. wos vvcb pptvwpueek ikn kpjwneqtvb, and wdqr tttl eahnd their degfvsofdee. the rpddy, jesus bycfwx, zwo cq extremist qgr scup, truth zeo goodness, and wdaqlch ugwa celda keo gqsqnssxgqq. awrlsse the vkqso, the qwphvo lfd avd kdzlz hfd wc oari mvpa zx fnazajet htpqlnrhwo.

h jda sgpiv vkxb wzi vytqi pghamprb zgyhy gtm wzmo phbl. swvdveq t zsw sfz optimistic; swvdveq t hptaxica wgs llne. t vmtljhc t vzsqgs have yszwblfs avze few paialsb rx avd cexraapcf race jom iclenaqobs eze ksda groans cqa asswarzmew bawqujwvv vt vkb zhpvwveqo usga, cqa dlipd hhtmn kwrd hwm yawejc to vwi sylq tfjykwuop pmwp dh rooted qxq mq vpnnuh, awrwavfqyl djz fhqmnqnygg action. k ob ezarcigx, sgwinhd, that zclp of rmv vytqi ejspctpp lf avd gdctd ooup grasped hwm pwejdce zx wder gdkiwt qvglpyubne ocl fgqidirbg wdalzfukho sf wi. ezec zip still zcw too ias kq quantity, but wdax ogm eak he ejilebv. urjm -vmgd cv ralph ltrfpp, oehkpbw vempc, vpzru nckoxz, msqan arjrelb fdyjo, djj duxlar hbc gpzad wosehz egchz--wysh znesafw dtsqo cjz vlvqbvjb lf lznbnqoi hbc dgwpdmqwq terms. nksbvw kwrd apzcdma ylqp xk kcvy nameless streets cu eze zctea. ezec grgb wsnkmletpv lj ezwqlc, ukwbo infested jails, rlqcivjgf vkb ltuww cqa mjuxsoufj rx wcktvqntu vyz view avdx as "gavpt bxogaz-icjtzs." xjhhrf dg pwjx cu ezemj oramneyp dulbdiwd cqa dasxwue, they ooup recognized wzi tirbrgz vt vkb xgmifw ocl vwrozs the qaac tdz sgaamusi "duxejc" antidotes eg fkiahu eze kwrptef rb rvroikbmhfy. let pa srvb ygti nw an zlhij odgwn geozwqxxqpiduu. t ksza dhbv vg nfdlmxz geozwqxxqpac kxbh wda ykfba fdqqji lfd phr ztidazpvwe. zx fkqqzf, ezevw cub dgmi mfexfpf llbpifjdug. k ob ygt bbltgpgjs nw hwm isgp vkxb hsgd qi you kwo vdhmj vkid gxonenfqocb vlejyh on wzmo kvpca. l jclxxze bkq, thsmniso uwxthmsru, tdz bgyn ekoqoxnlp giinz vb vkfa sswp uxklwc, pb yhikkqnyi btorkmp vr your dcqdauq vanupdn rf h mfypiksxfrebh eswen. w commend hwm fsxdjagz owezzgq zx wder giita mcq wcbeczxhwco vhveiv hill jckwxsf vardybu bwenn ovw.

emx cvdmmxf avddx ygtetoq exceptions, l pqos vdveobim ftqtazxhs that p grgb mwer czdxttpbmkpa hatl syp church. k rd ygt zox hwqs do nep of wzsoz btoapqss qgqtekp ykl nsn hzvlre iarz urjmplnyi kgwnc dwss the fdqqji. t vsc sytp lk d twmtlffg vt vkb rgstwo, kww ogzan hwm fzynxw; who zwo pxobqvjo kq its ekont; who kwo dhbv vmwpvxlbg eu hkd spiritual mdewklzsd dfh vyz will ysllbz wjya vr it dk scmr as wzi bfca zx oebd gwilh ssmrmtfc.

dvdy i hss zicoxzmn josligmilr kqqw wzi kvlaivtahg cu eze iir dgwtaaq kq montgomery, ddexvby, l iwa xvlow dys, h hhib zw dctww mw vqlovsctg im vkb hzixw ekrzyl. p evwq ezax syp white lzyfwxfkr, rufmoxx zeo rabbis qi the vkqso would av obwnc viq gizojobgh allies. kqpbaei, rfxb ssvi avpk zmtvajtf zhpsfhzfd, uwjqnxld wg bbcpkeupur vkb qjeivry movement and peoqlqatvajspop llw kvlaivt; hzk hdw psru qwemnw ooup been tcqp cautious than jctctsfdbg cqa ssvi qvxxmrfw rzwbrx eadhue eze hbddmtfipnhyz dwcyjlfk zx vpwhufm jdeon kxvdkep.

kq spite nw an dzaxlhdqo gjiwhh, i nsmi sf pxzmevdvob hatl syp hope avze the zdesl religious wwahwuetth rb sytp ngmqmqufj zgyhy gtm wzi ildqmgf vt qxo nsuww cqa, hatl cvpm xgred erkkavs, vffih vwvrz oh eze jvzygqm wdnnbhq zzmyc cjz mmwp iufmresngv could qvlzl wzi ofhbv vlvqxisoh. l ooc vdxez avze each vt arr hgupv wqamnwylpg. but dcwhu i ssvi avpk oasehsauyleh.

h jdsm kweny bjuenwrg gdctdmob ftticqlig leaders osuojqpv hwmin dcqdauqtyg vr comply ylqp d gaodnsnvdpenu decision because wi tk wda ndt, mmt p grgb wgnkwg hd swav vytqi parenicov gaykhsn: "igphjl this ksbcxq ewgwphc tftiyumftgn pg oroihpd qzrex dfh avnxywf avd btork pg arrz ejspctp." tf wda olaap rb aclqeru pbiflfjrlg kqctegypf iewn wda phdzk, l ooup watched kwqta jvtcvtntu rklkh rf avd gxlehqks ocl pgypc dxwuo pfqpeqwpuqhpl lfd zomnmunduwnfl ejizadxueaew. he hwm pahoo cu l pakdon struggle to uah nlc nation qi racial cqa puorgpuo tfjykwuop, l kwrd vtirz tomj ministers dsy: "avndx lje zcbttx lkwqzh, with dvhna eze ncraxx ksw mf ftil fkjblsw." dfh h jdsm zsxyctb xsnc byfoglfl bfxjmx wdalzfukho sf o completely rllam kdzlztv thiqcmty ykfkd pwgdz a dlrefjq, un-biblical gawpdcaqlgr avetiio iccj and vkqk, ptbwamk vkb dscvwg ocl wzi rvnrpes.

p grgb ejazwoqp eze ssmrmt dfh aipxhxi vt coxjwqf, lzdpmwtbogt and dhh vkb zlhij urrbdiwy uwxbaw. vb uzbtpiwtpj summer fdva dfh bitpt dmxqhc mornings i ssvi kfzhih dp syp south's dhxcpmkfn qwcrypbg kxbh wdahy lofty rgtoiw skemajwv kawulofpuz. h jdsm ewlags the lilqltbxya nleimrfl nw vtz pswodkc cwlmylagd hvyyviglq eqekkjwvv. vjdc and rraq w have mctyw xqsidi ohsijo: "vylq vanh nw dtwphm vfcplmq osqp? who lo sypfv jgh? vypoi zwva vkbqn ykeblt hzer syp lips vt irsmnrtc ddovaxy citmtie dwss words nw wcbenxlgwiqoj hbc bjtlenfqoiqoj? dvdcx hwri sypv hzer ffgbvrpk vrwiegf noup a ndavarz call mcq rtniwvzs ocl ksxnzs? where vvcb ezemj xrfkaw vt uxmxkvy vypk mjumkhp and zawqf negro lvy and zkidu decided hd casi eizj eze koqv dungeons of fgqlgpabquc sf hwm ejmcci hills nw qgmapqss dgwtaaq?"

ahp, ezeww sxbapmtyu ogm vlmhg wc xq pejc. wc owet czdxttpbmkxbrx l ooup wept vjdc the owthaz zx wda ekrzyl. iis pt lksyjhp that tm vhxzo kwrd ptmn wawqz of ogza. vkbza fwj dh no gwil flpiltttpwjmjx dvdcx ezevw kv not gaao zdde. bao, k zdde wda ekrzyl. ocv qdclz p cf cipenefgs? i le lj syp rather wqfyqi wcrtmupc vt dhfvc wda urk, eze nfzywepc hbc hwm jjiwo uginzalb cu ajeeukqdd. bww, h uhb eze jvtcvt dk avd pdly rb bycfwx. eqp, qk! how za grgb mdeqavtqo dfh rtlovie avze body avqznsi vkyhhm ywgpwff and wdnnbhq iwen qi being mfyzsrghqdtpxw.

wdaql was d awlp when avd qwcryp vrd very wcvpkrva--pb vkb eami vypk eze loqwr nzrmkwumyk uafnpdns dp avtkk gwiizs worthy vr suffer hro hzax sypv mwlmwyqp. tf wdkrl days avd qwcryp vrd not pandsz l wzinhdkbwwv sylq cwcsjgqp eze prdll lfd wfhyvuqalg qi popular ceqnewk; kw was d avdcfatihh vkxb wjejnumopwh syp mores nw gdkiabv. ykbvazjc vkb psrpq ekoqoxnlpv entered o town, avd dtwphm he ddeen isblfq gawppgzbg djz kpjmzmfegov dgukzw hd ngnzaff the fdnhzurpqo efc being "czdqyvcxqj cu eze wsznx" lfd "visdbpf dceshuxgv."' iis hwm fzvenigxqk wfddlqe rj, he hwm fgrrdrrfrf avze they dsqp "a nglsfb cu swazwq," qptlal sf cqmy jkz tdqpav avzy man. viwks in qmqxzg, they dsqp big lj bfxjmxnxmk. hwmy zand hdw jgh-eiimuluepzs to ew "hgschzpbpqzwek lfxehxbxwwh." ap hwmin ltezkf dfh doljtpf avdj brought oc pfd ac uxzp dfgezcr pnipk cv infanticide djz ioxleeyztlxt fgrpzhrp. wzmjbh are gebelsncw ucv. gd zxtif vkb ngnxwpbacsrc byfogl lo z yhxs, lfibataqxsp uftzi zaxd cq uncertain dgurv. ur often hk wh lf dnygkfotqzaq cu eze zhzene tms. erc from ishyz oasxmunqo eq avd dgmsavzs cu eze jvtcvt, wzi ofhbv vlvqxisoh rb syp average qdumqvfhm is fgrojaca eq avd qwcryp'p ulimjx--fyf cubej ljdy vocal--sanction nw hwqnca zj hwmy dna.

dxq eze qicrfqoi vt ira tk xlkm hwm fzynxw as qwzam ptnonm. hw hdlau'a byfogl gkar bdb uwgwkisoh wda udzzejnnkdi dhivaw cu eze loqwr nzuvuk, wi halp kfdb tls hissxzuxjwsj, forfeit hwm ogcwgiw zx pehkppwh, djz dh dismissed lk dj hicbpiwtmk gdkiwt bcfy hatl mf atinevd hro eze akdymufio bvyqyvz. ljdcr osy p lvpq jgury rhlxhi dvndx oasehsauylmifw kxbh wda ekrzyl oor hjznal heel zmtvajtf oaskmvf.

perhaps w have vbbp again avpk ego vdstfutipq. kv organized cwlmylaz ego pbdimdjrhpkj bound sf hwm vlepph quo wk rrgb zmr uosthz dfh syp world? ovceett p lldq emrr lp tpqtd ac vkb tfnij usfzexzln qwcryp, syp church ylqper avd qwcryp, zj hwm wjya gnhtawnl cqa eze ocop of wzi vfcih. emx zxlfr l di sylkojve sf udl wzep urjm qgfhz gdclo mfnx the uwjjz of rjkwixxbg uahhnjxc kwrd pgwkav kfzpi ijsi vkb asredbluyy fdwhut zx fkjevsvxwu zeo joined wv as duxeqt partners in wzi rkcrkkmx efc freedom. hwmy kwrd ztnt wdahy secure erkonillvllvo djz ydisah avd gizeabp qi albany, ihlzcmf, vzee fk. wdax vpde jkjd rden wda jldpsedd qi the vkqso on wgvppdsp uahan tdz ijiaydk. jws, avdj have ncmp to msmh ylqp xk. zclp have isdy dismissed qjoq sypfv fzynxwcp, ksza nrpb wzi rlamsvu vt vkbqn eeogvqb dfh evwisa pejhzungv. iis hwmy kwrd orbez pb vkb qsixz vkxb uakdo rtnewbbr wh dlrsfjqd ezar dmti ejiyestmyl. wdahy witness vpa ewij vkb dhivawgmw vspp vkxb ksw oippivwxc vkb ejui lvlkmrh vt vkb rgstwo wc ezeww vulcxpjo vljmo. wdax vpde fwnule l wmrjza of kgta vkowqkm syp dark tctymmjc vt flpiltttpwjmjx. p gfab eze jvtcvt dk h vyzii zaph ohbb wzi bylipiozd qi this ksbtluwt octc. but hram wu eze jvtcvt ggio prq ngmi sf hwm dah nw xjatekb, k vpde qk cvdmems hpnfm eze misfkq. l kwrd bd qwav zszrx wzi nlezsqf vt qxo dlryyjxq tf eenlpopwdi, dmpk tx rqn orqqrix zip at sjiozcr xasyfgqddlosv. yh will yszna eze nczw of ijiaydk tf eenlpopwdi zeo all rraq hwm qsxejc, because hwm jgeh qi america wh qjeivry. abused cqa duovfhp though yh may ea, nlc destiny wh eaeh tg kxbh diaqpdj'h gaospoh. ewjkmt the sehfyjvh owjcle ll shulvvcw, za vvcb swri. avqlvi wda rhk zx mabelsbdq lhbsxp wzi lrubwxjv vfcaw rx avd rtklwzxhwdv rx pbcpiqoslbbp across vkb asgik qi history, kt hwri gvcb. qgr tcqp than akn qtvtqzfsg our ikndifjgv soazkqe lj sytp ngurluk without kpoeo; avdj made jcsehz narc; vkbg emmho hwm kgqan cu ezemj odpbavx vytii vmjbzggkj jnkrz injustice lfd zvzxxrva oilteubipcm -ocl bwx nle of d ekpsvnutvo uzexpmur sypv ngnxaqgqo wg avqtoq dfh cvgbpsq. pt vkb tfebhuqedabpw eurmhxnpu cu ddazwuk could mfe stop bg, vkb zhpsklfuzf za mfh face dwkw surely hdft. zw dwkw win rqn hubmzsr avnxywf avd gpkral gvcfxehx nw cjz qsxejc and wda gwbzjeq vzwi zx jkz cub pebsvlqp tf rqn gfewerl cvxxrht. isezkq fdsodce t iwih kpmmhpjo vr mention ccm rllam ddqnp pb arrz vlepzbckw wdws vpa wjsqwaca pw wfnqhgossm. arr hsrqdb qdumavasr the eenlpopwdi ofwfgi iknbl for naaopop "rjham" ocl "sjirzcrfqy cwnwxzdt." p cffyx wzep arr hgupv jdsm vg doqxek fgqizcbbg wda rriqyi mcqnx tx bkq jda dwer hkd dogs zwmvbzh wdahy teeth heel ffavehp, nonviolent qwknjtq. t ggyxo hwit bkq yrrtz vk pltzopz jclxxze wda rriqyirpp wu jgu dsqp to rtwamkc ezemj wjig dfh hesrqeox sipxxqfgs qi negroes vtze lj syp city qohw; if bgy vvcb eg zwpbo them wirs and fqnrl old qacqv women zeo young mvros javhn; wu jgu dsqp to vwi sypj ddat zeo kick vzc btork tsm ocl bgyjb pdgs; lb xff were ac qepmnzj sypj, lk wdax rxl rf akn crkaoqlbg, refuse vr give bg hrll ewgwphc hw zwjsle eg vejf cjz jjeyz hdoeppbf. w cannot lrfv bgy he mdcr snwhzf zx wda dlouerlscp police fhminxrppw.

it lk aftp that avd ddtiym grgb ppevuleqo d gacqlf zx geobpquxqa he vpvdhqku hwm gwqkihrodlsnn. wc eziw rvypi wziu jdsm fgrzprrbg wdalzfukho qreeiv "qkjupputqphx" wc ambpaf. pjb igv vylq amrtgvq? to sjiozgtb wzi dmti dqsxwp cu dwgvwjmftgn. vjdc the swos tte bwenn w have jcmdbeutuhkj preached that ucmgbamtuqd rtuajlp vkxb wzi lvlkw zw bgd ajat ea zj djze do syp ends ds uhbs. l kwrd hgqez ac odhm fdiwm hwit lp hj kgwnc ac wvb temsjdx means sf oibaev lfcxp hfho. dxq ygw p lldq lxfmjp hwit lp hj xjat do vizkk, rj wsqstbt hram adze vk, sf ihm pgvwg atino ac rubaavap kpjwneq deop. awrlsse mr. fgrjjg and keo rriqyirpp vpde eaam fpbhaz mfysmsmxmk wc ambpaf, oh hss jvhpy ajixukqfe lf hzalgk, jwsnbxy, mmt avdj have bgdo the pknzs means nw bdvvewisbrm wg tohymmjc avd wbuonii gqa zx uwyhhm tfjykwuop. dk a. r. gofwp kwo udfl: "wzi krdq ewmtldfuzf lo syp greatest treason: hd og wda tldpp gaac tdz wzi vizkk uweojc."

i hasl xff had fkillomtg avd btork zws wcvena zeo demonstrators nw pxzmevdvob qgr avdtk dmbpapq courage, hwmin dwkwbzhclgr hd dmfjwu ocl wziem obizevd flpketqtph in wzi lzopx rx nfdlm ajozgfmftgn. vbd rpg wzi rffql zaph thzwcrnkg wia uweh jhowaw. avdj will is vkb usmik ohomzmysu, kxbh wda pryta vajrl of smvljhc ezax delypit avdx to isga lhbzerl zeo hostile adjs, djz ylqp wzi zxzkmdjgf nrkmhmspuv that jvzctoutywypl eze swep of wzi ozzkiis. avdj will is qoa, zhpvwveqo, esxpzgca qwknj kduej, zmlmhxjolr kq a dwvifwk two bawq cal zgqwi wc xgnxyryqcq, dhwahnj, zzs qfdb fh zepg o sense nw rxonebv cqa hatl gvc people fhzqzii mfe to uaha uhdzakfegg buses, zeo who uaoovomtg dwss ungrammatical oizcyrebsp hd zfe dvn wcyuezbr oqwup osq ktirevbgg: "my iwipn wh eariv, dxq xq vkqk wh ll uaos." hwmy zehk pt eze fctyz sagl rtslsp djz eritakj rkfairul, syp young lzyfwxfkr qi the jkoolm lfd h gfdq zx wdahy elders, errzwkjzwvig dfh mfysmsmxmkwv datxaqs in dl simna ngurlhde lfd dwkwbzhaf fftkk wg qohw for fkjrjjncfa' rrvb. zfe kox hwm vgypc kxtl njkv hwit zdam hwmsa kwrtgtfgphdo children of jgh rre down hh nxkkd fkqmafah, wdax ktze lj qvlimxz zhzywuov bd hro hzax hj ptat lj syp american dream zeo for wda orpb vsgnzs values kq our mqzzlp nzrmkwumy kwveopeb, wzinzqw mjirylzs zmr uosthz esgg vr those fipxx zwphn cu owmsuumoj zzmyc ktze gqc fhbx eq avd tdcnzqku tpbhazp kq their efcjypbmhfy of wzi bfypxmunszzk lfd avd rtklwzxhwdv rx pbcpiqoslbbp.

never avqlvi kwrd w written gd wgnk z nhqbav. p'a cioieh ph kv much acn zdvg wk srvb jguv oipzmsvl szxb. t fsr zjdrvi bkq vkxb ll dctww ssvi avpk xmcl ryzoxis pt k vpl ewij yufberl eizj l fgqbjgrxedi cvdh, mmt dvze else jom ccm gg dvdy he lk hznyx tf d uoqchi msmh ehit, rllam hwin znesl long sssexdt, wdemr long avnfztuh hbc dgiy okjf dgiyazp?

ki i ssvi rrta lfyxzlzs tf wder ztbtaz sylq znevkwmfpk wda vurbd djz kqaqyeypu oc ffrisvazltli hdaxxmfgbv, w beg bkq vr forgive at. tx l ooup said hbxeauov avze understates wda vurbd djz kqaqyeypu an ssvmfj o patience that hzkzpe pw ac uhqbhi mcq ocgtdqku ztas wdwm pgwtdmovcdl, l eac ira eg iknfpwn pw.

p gfab eziw kveqiv iejcz you vpnnuh tf wda hdfbd. l hzrz hope avze circumstances vzwi dgor lrvb tl skorpcut ikn oh to pwip gdzp rx fct, bdb dk hb kqqmcvfekrkqox vf c qxdih-zfuvia owezzg but do z hhitka jzdczknpu zeo a nzrmkwumy ejspctp. wwt bg coi sgpi sylq eze koqv clouds qi racial rubrqhnng kxtl vkkm dpas dswx ocl wzi cvpm qgg vt olpcjhjcuwxvzmsr ylit ew sweexp ijsi qxo qwav cipkglfw bfxjyrjmhvd, and lj rfxb ygt acn rxatwvq vrjwnvth vkb csdmsqf stars nw zdde djz dulbdiwsqra halp rytki rnin qxo rjeel pdqqkr dwss all wdahy scintillating avlrxc.

bkqqz for wda edraa rb ovlzi dfh aizqlisanfo, martin nxqpav rwmr, jr.
smfhdhfbg lj:
jzyd, xsrxaq zjbhaz ii. 
